{% include mathjax.html %}

(For table of contents, visit the [homepage](/README.md))

[Previous](Quantum_ideas.md)/[Next](PIB.md)

# The Time Independent Schrödinger Equation (TISE)

As the name describes, the time independent Schrödinger only depends on space and is indepdent of time. This equation can be used for any operator shown on the previous page, but the rest of this page will discuss the TISE in terms of the Hamiltonian operator. The equation that describes quantum mechanics of particles in well defined energy states or stationary states can be determined by the equation:

$$\hat{H}\psi(x)=E\psi(x)$$

where $$\hat{H}$$ is the Hamiltonian operator that is the sum of the kinetic and potential energy operators, and $$\psi(x)$$ is the time independent wavefunction. The eigenvalues generated by the Hamilotian operator give the energy level of a specific stationary state.

When using functions to represent the wavefunction, the Hamiltonian is

$$\hat{H} = \frac{\hbar^2}{2m}\frac{\partial^2}{\partial x^2} + V(x)$$

where $$m$$ is the mass of the particle and $$V(x)$$ is the potential energy operator. The potential energy operator is dependent on what model you are using for your system. The stationary state energies are equal to 

$$\psi_n=sqrt(frac{2}{l})sin(frac{n(pi)x}{l})$$

where $$n$$ is the specified stationary state and $$l$$ is the length of the box. 

But as stated on the [summary of quantum ideas page](Quantum_ideas.md), the Hamiltonian and wavefunctions can be represented as a matrix and vector, respectively. Therefore, the eigenvalues can be determined by using the matrix on the wavefunction. 

The following page is an example of using the TISE with particle in a box. This shows how the equation can be used to determine and visualize the different states of a wavefunction.

[Next](PIB.md) (Particle in a Box)
